growing practice on the roadways and
police say it's as dangerous as any
they've ever seen but a lot of people
are doing it and it's costing lives
Kerry Birmingham now with her problem
solved Investigation cari makan Huell
five white roses marked the spot where
five young girls were killed in a
violent crash it's a story that made
national news the past summer and those
young girls have become poster children
of a sort for a growing and dangerous
new phenomenon that took their lives
text messaging while driving these girls
were like a huge part of my life today
they can't believe they're gone
investigators say one of the girls was
texting friends as she drove in upstate
New York when she lost control and hit a
semi head-on everyone on board was
killed and it's far from the only
texting while driving fatality in the
last few months alone I don't even know
how to feel I feel a lot of anger anger
at the 18 year old driver police say was
texting her friends when she crossed the
center line and struck this Arizona
woman head on killing her instantly she
couldn't wait a nanosecond to send her
stupid little LOL but sadly lots of
people can't wait many of them our
youngest and least experienced drivers
hi with my left hand I text with my riot
who admit to driving while texting so
often they've come up with a name for it
they're not intoxicated they're in texta
cated I've had both hands on the phone
and I Drive with my knee
like I put my me up on the wheel more
than half the 600 teams we surveyed say
they also text while driving although
most admit it can be dangerous funny
thing is when they talk about not being
able to drive well and text at the same
time they're not talking about
themselves it's always the other guy
people don't realize that they're not
driving very well they think they can
overcome the problem and they get into
trouble we wanted to see just how hard
it is to text and drive so we enlisted
the help of U of M professor Paul Green
who studies how things like new
technologies affect us behind the wheel
we also recruited a college intern
Alicia a senior a normally good driver
but one who admits she and her friends
sometimes text from the driver's seat I
have a lot of friends who like to tell
me oh you should have seen what this
idiot just did on the road but they're
texting me while they're driving about
it Alicia agreed to hop in U of M's
driving simulator and text while driving
in a very typical scenario a four-lane
highway with a modest amount of other
traffic watch her eyes she has focused
so much on texting she loses sight of
other cars on the road oh and there was
a cop perfect like real life several
times while looking at her phone she
veers into other lanes sorry and then it
happens at that on a yellow car go
there he is a car in front of her
stopped suddenly and Alicia doesn't
notice in time she is forced off the
road I noticed that I'd be staring down
not realizing that I'm not looking at
the road and what's going on and I think
that was the time when I had to swerve
off the road and because I almost really
hit that one car she was very fortunate
there was no barrier there had there
been a barrier there there would have
been a crash and of course Alicia was
also lucky that she was in a simulator
in real life texting while driving
causes accidents that are all too real
to the people left behind just ask the
family of 25 year old Matt Wilhelm an
aspiring cyclist and scholar in Illinois
Matt was struck and killed by a driver
who looked down to text for a few
seconds a few seconds he probably
thought wouldn't matter but those
seconds Matt's mother says made all the
difference in the world drive now and
talk later or texts later because it
only takes a second to create an eternal
heartbreak
we haven't had a high-profile fatal
crash while texting here in Michigan but
there have been serious accidents that
have easily been deadly a year ago an 18
year old text messaging friends hit a
police officer who was directing traffic
around a crash at i-94 in the southfield
freeway fortunately that Officer
survived and it's not just teens a
harris poll shows that two-thirds of
adults admit to texting or reading text
messages while they're driving yet
eighty-nine percent of those surveyed
said it should be outlawed they may just
get their wish New Jersey and Washington
state of already passed laws banning
texting while driving and Wisconsin
currently has a bill in its legislature
but no law against it here in Michigan
right now no law at this point here in
Michigan there's been some talk and
there's some support for that Triple A
is behind that but at this point there
has been no law introduced and you know
here in Michigan we don't have a whole
lot of laws about using cell phones
anyway inside cars where are some states
ban it completely well after seeing your
story a lot of people may change their
minds I absolutely hope so